-----BEGIN PGP SIGNED MESSAGE-----
Hash: SHA1

Sir Timothy John Berners-Lee,

I'm contacting you because I recently learned about your final
decision on "supporting playback of protected content" in the next W3C
HTML specification and I am (as many others) very concerned about this
topic.
You are one of my biggest mentors and I admire all your work in the
creation of one of the most fundamental parts of the Internet (which
is IMO the most revolutionary invention of modern society), so I
really hope that my words in this e-mail are not going to offend you
in any way.

You once wrote:

"Perhaps I should explain where I'm coming from. I had (and still
have) a dream that the web could be less of a television channel and
more of an interactive sea of shared knowledge. I imagine it immersing
us as a warm, friendly environment made of the things we and our
friends have seen, heard, believe or have figured out. I would like it
to bring our friends and colleagues closer, in that by working on this
knowledge together we can come to better understandings. If
misunderstandings are the cause of many of the world's woes, then can
we not work them out in cyberspace. And, having worked them out, we
leave for those who follow a trail of our reasoning and assumptions
for them to adopt, or correct."

If I may, I would like to ask you if you still have this dream and, if
you do, how the inclusion of DRM in HTML5 is compatible with your
dream. More specifically, how is the "Encrypted Media Extensions" not
going to turn our computers in restrictive televisions?

I must say that I feel disappointed about the path that the W3C is
following lately, and that I can't understand why you are supporting
the interest of Hollywood lobbies above your own dream of a warm and
friendly environment, an interactive sea of shared knowledge...

Creating standards to restrict what common users can do with their own
user agent is not a solution for the voracious appetite of the big
media companies who wish to obtain billions more; smart people will
still be able to reverse engineer the binaries and create unrestricted
versions of their chosen web browser, and then if they want they're
also going to share those so-called "protected contents" in cyberspace
with anyone.
The actual problem here is that with this precedent the W3C is
starting to encourage the use of DRM. I don't think it's necessary to
extend this mail to explain why DRM is extremely dangerous (as you
probably know it well), so my last question is: are you really sure
that this is what *you* want for the future of the web?

Kind regards,
 Brian Gomes Bascoy
-----BEGIN PGP SIGNATURE-----
Version: GnuPG v2.0.20 (GNU/Linux)

iQEcBAEBAgAGBQJSTdKTAAoJEI59EZMJc+6C+X8H/1yHDM9Ka28V7ieqYNIYO7mH
+r7EVbHItPx30FI1nGHScogGoM4doev3n3b3iHXVDLTI+e+nZsxkVEm/nWp8pdcp
8zNvmV+GXikXOA4ek3BAdKVomKKVNEM10/k9I4d9nVpqRcPpRwNtXPXFNhCzurtc
ksKGNqrx3FJFTbrQEAB999z0GzpXISLml7rtOHAhdiozfs9geY0JmY4648NfiaPx
KX3fyxhg/xkLJcr0/+pQSByFDzngnKOTRMEnM+9uMB8qLkT3uyZG3AMZPzPVGKcE
DqaFlbbgX5SHbdbY3wAH8YEqBgssn7Lm7Qi4hcfBt+4j4TYULawHwSSAkAdNJ90=
=2ip9
-----END PGP SIGNATURE-----

